Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we will learn how to work with multiple post types.
Let's dive right into the action and jump in to our text editor.
So here we are within our search routine file that we've been working on for the last couple of lessons.
And at the moment, the WP query that we're putting together only looks for posts that are of the post
type professor.
And clearly, we don't want our search overlay to be limited to only professors.
Right.
We want to search everything on the site.
Now, luckily, WordPress makes it very easy to query for multiple post types.
Check this out.
All we have to do is delete this quotes, professor, and in its place, provide an array.
And then within the array we can just say quotes post, comma, page, comma, professor.
Right.
So we just built an array and list all of the different post types that we want to include.
So if I go ahead and save this and then over in Postman at the end of our new API URL, if I search
for Bachs a lot, we still successfully pull in that professor post.
But if instead I search for about as in the about US page, well, we successfully pull in those results
as well.
Or I could search for a blog post.
So I know I have a post named we won an award.
So if I search for a ward because we included post in our array of post types, we successfully pull
in a blog post result.
So this is great and it was very easy to set up.
We just set post time to equal an array and list out the post types.
However, let me show you something that's less than ideal.
So if I search for something like lorem as in lorem ipsum.
Just as an example, that's going to return posts from just about every post type, but I don't want
all of the JSON for these results to be mixed together like this, because on our front end over in
the search overlay, I don't want all of the results to just be mixed together in a single list.
Instead, I have a vision for a three column layout for the results where the first column will be just
posts and pages mixed together.
So that will be the general information results.
And then the second column will have programs and professors and then the third column will have campuses
and events.
So back in our code, instead of placing all of the results posts into this one array, right into this
one big single array, which at the moment is named Professor Results.
Right.
That's the array that within our while loop we use array push to push each resulting post onto the end
of the array.
So what I'm suggesting is instead of just having this one big single array in order to stay organized,
why don't we create multiple sub arrays or in other words, one array for posts and pages and the general
information and then another array for programs, another array for professors, another array for campuses
and an array for events.
So let me show you how I would set that up.
First of all, let's do a bit of renaming.
This query is no longer just for professors, so let's rename this query object from professors to maybe
main query.
I just made this name up.
You could choose whatever you want, but we do want to match that name down here when we are looping
through it.
So within our while loop instead of professors, let's change that to main query.
And then on this line, when we call the post, let's change that from professors to main query.
And then on a similar note, when it comes to this empty array that we are populating, it doesn't make
sense to name it professor results since it's going to contain all sorts of data.
So why don't we rename this empty array to just be named results?
OK, and then down at the very bottom of this file, when we are returning something, instead of trying
to return an array that no longer exists, let's return results.
Now, I realize that the last minute or two might have been difficult to follow, but I think our next
step is going to help clear things up a bit.
So check this out within this empty array named results.
This is the array that we're going to populate as we loop through the results within this empty array.
Let's actually drop down in between the parentheses.
And what I want to do is build out an associative array where each item contains a different type of
content.
So, for example, we could make up whatever name we want, but let's say general info and this is where
we will place the blog posts and pages.
For now, let's send it to equal a temporary X placeholder new line.
Let's create another item in this array named professors and just set it to equal an X, OK, and then
what other types of content do we have?
We have programs and we have events.
And we have campuses.
Now, instead of just placeholder exes, I want each one of these exes to be an array, an empty array
that we can push on to and populate within our loop.
So instead of this ex placeholder, just say array and then do the same thing for these other four exes
so you can just copy and paste.
OK, at this point, I think my game plan is starting to shift into focus.
We've got this query that's going to contain results from all different sorts of post types.
And then when we loop through it, depending on the type of the current result, we will just push it
into the appropriate empty array.
Before we update our loop code, let's be sure to include all post types up in this array.
So at the moment I've got post page professor.
Let's not forget about program, campus and event.
All right.
Now, the final piece of our puzzle is to update our loop code.
So within this while loop down here, this selected code will run once for each post and the results
only now, instead of pushing on to the end of an array named Professor Results, let's change this
first argument to the results and then you can look inside the array with square brackets and let's
say general info.
So this is our way of saying that the array we want to add on to is this one.
This empty submarine that lives within the overall results array, cool, but there's one thing missing
this array, Pushilin.
We actually want to wrap this within conditional logic because we only want to add something to the
general info array if it's a blog post or a page.
Right.
We want to funnel all of the other content types into their appropriate arrays.
So let's do this right above this array push line.
Let's just write an if statement.
So if parentheses, curly brackets and for the condition, we can just say if I get post type, which
is a WordPress function, so it gets its own set of parentheses if that equals post or if you post type
equals page.
So if the current result is a post or a page, then within the curly brackets for the if statement,
let's just cut and paste this array, push code cut that pasted in here, OK, and then we can just
duplicate this block of code for each of the other types like Prof's programs, events and campuses.
So I'm just going to copy and paste and duplicate this if statement block of code that we just set up.
Copy that and then right below it, just paste it in again.
So in this time, let's say if gatepost type equals professor, and then in this case we don't need
the other or condition.
And if that's the case, then the array that we want to push it onto is results and then the summary
of professors.
Right.
So big picture this while loop is going to loop through all of the results and then with these different
if statements, we're just trying to funnel the results into their appropriate locations.
So that way the data that we feed to the rest API is already organized and it will be super easy to
work with within our front end JavaScript.
So let's just finish up and set up a couple additional if statements for the other post types.
So I'm just going to copy this right below it, duplicate it.
Let's say if gatepost type equals program, then let's push it onto the array programs pasted again.
If gatepost type equals campus, then add it to the results campuses summary and then finally blow this
one more time.
If gatepost type equals event, add it to the events array.
OK, now that we've taken care of all of the different possibilities, let's go ahead and save this
and then test it out over and post.
Man.
So if I search for Bachs a lot, perfect.
This is exactly what I would want to see.
The only post on our website that matches a search of Bachs a lot is a professor post.
So here we see it and then all of our other arrays are empty.
So if instead I searched for about as in the about US page, we see a few results in the general info
array, but all of the others are empty.
Cool.
So this is going to make it very easy to build out our three column layout where we separate the different
types of content.
And that's exactly what we are going to work on in the next lesson.
In the next video, we are going to connect the dots between our front end overlay JavaScript and the
new custom API u RL that we've been building.
It should be a lot of fun to put everything together.
So let's keep rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.